# Predicting-Heart-Attack-Survival-logistic-regresion-and-random-forest-

Section 1: Data Descriptions 

In this paper, we analyse a dataset of 299 patients with heart failure collected in 2015 sourced from the Public Library of Science , under the Creative Commons license. The dataset contains the medical records of 299 heart failure patients collected at the Faisalabad Institute of Cardiology and at the Allied Hospital in Faisalabad (Pakistan), during April–December 2015. The patients consisted of 105 women and 194 men, aged between 40 and 95 years old. All patients had left ventricular systolic dysfunction and had previous heart failures. 

The dataset contains 13 features, which report clinical, body, and lifestyle information, that we briefly describe here. Some features are binary e.g., anaemia, high blood pressure, diabetes, sex, and smoking. 

Here, we briefly explain the meaning behind key features such as anaemia, creatinine_phosphokinase, ejection_fraction, serum_creatinine and serum_sodium. 
The hospital physician considered a patient having anaemia (anaemia = 1) if haematocrit level is lower than 36%.  

Next, the creatinine phosphokinase (CPK) represents the level of the CPK enzyme in blood. When a muscle tissue gets damaged, CPK flows into the blood. Therefore, high levels of CPK in the blood of a patient might indicate a heart failure or injury. 

The ejection fraction states the percentage of how much blood the left ventricle pumps out with each contraction.

The serum creatinine is a waste product generated by creatine when a muscle breaks down. Especially, doctors focus on serum creatinine in blood to check kidney function. If a patient has high levels of serum creatinine, it may indicate renal dysfunction. 

Sodium is a mineral that serves for the correct functioning of muscles and nerves. The serum sodium test is a routine blood exam that indicates if a patient has normal levels of sodium in the blood. An abnormally low level of sodium in the blood might be caused by heart failure. 

The death event feature, that we use as the dependent variable, represents if the patient died or survived before the end of the follow-up period, which is 130 days on average. 
Before proceeding to the modelling part, we present the summary of the dataset. In the table below, each column represents the variable of the dataset, and each row represents the descriptive statistics for each variable. These statistics are produced using the function stat.desc of ‘pastecs’ library of R. Looking at the values in the table, we inspect whether this dataset has any issues such as missing values etc. There are no missing values. And, ‘NA’ values are printed for features that are in binary format.

